# Lists and Keys

First, let's review how you transform lists in JavaScript.

Given the code below, we use the map() function to take an array of numbers and docuble their value. We assign the new array returned by map() to the variable doubled and log it:

```js
const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
const doubled = number.map(number => number * 3);
console.log(doubled);
```

This code logs [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] to the console.

In React, transforming arrays into lists of elements is nearly identical.

## Rendering Multiple Components

You can build collections of elements and include them in JSX using curly braces {}.

Below, we loop through the numbers array using the JavaScript map() function. We return a <li> element for each item. Finally, we assign the resulting array of elements to listItems:

```jsx
const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
const listItems = number.map(number => <li>{number}</li>)
```

We include the entire listItems array inside a <ul> element, and render it to the DOM;

```jsx
ReactDOM.render(
    <ul>{listItems}</ul>,
    document.getElementById('root')
)
```

This code displays a bullet list of numbers between 1 and 5.

## Basic list Component

Usually you would render lists inside a component.

We can reactor the Previous into a component that accepts an array of numbers and outputs a list of elements.

```jsx
function NumberList(props) {
    const numbers = props.numbers;
    const listItems = numbers.map(number => <li>{number}</li>)
    return <ul>{listItems}</ul>
}

const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
ReactDOM.render(
    <NumberList numbers={numbers} />,
    document.getElementById('root')
);
```

When you run this code, you'll be given a warning that a key should be provided for list items. A "key" is a special string attribute you need to include when creaing lists of elements. We'll discuss why it's important in the next section.

Let's assign a key to our list items inside numbers.map() and fix the missing key issue.

```jsx
function NumberList(props) {
    const numbers = props.number;
    const listItems = number.map(number => <li key={number.toString()}>{number}</li>)
    return (<ul>{listItems}</ul>)
}

const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
ReactDOM.render(
    <NumberList numbers={numbers} />,
    document.getElementById('root')
)
```

## Keys

Keys help React Identify which items have changed, are added, or are removed, keys should be given to the elements inside the array to give the delements a stabled idertity:

```jsx
const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
const listItems = numbers.map(number => <li key={number.toString()}>{number}</li>)
```

The best way to pick a key is to use a string that uniquely identifies a list item among its siblings. Most often you would use IDs from  you date ad keys:

```jsx
const todoItems = todos.map(todo => <li key={todo.id}>{todo.text}</li>)
```

When you don't have stable IDs for rendered items you may use the item index as a key as a last resort:

```jsx
const todoItems = todos.map((todo, index) => <li key={index}>{todo.text}</li>)
```

We don't remcommend using indexes for keys if the order of items may change. This can negatively impact performance and may cause issues with component state. Check out Robin Pokorny's article for an in-depth explanation on the negative impacts of using an index as a key. If you choose not to assign an explicit key to list items then React will default to using indexes as keys.

Here is an in-depth explanation about why keys are nesessary if you're interested in learning more.

## Extracting Components with Keys

Keys only make sense in the context of the surrounding array.

For example, if you extract a ListItem  component, you should keep the key on the <ListItem /> elements in the array rather than on the <li> element in the ListItem itself.

## Example: incorrect Key Usage

```jsx
function ListItem(props) {
    const value = props.value;
    return (<li key={value.toString()}>{value}</li>)
}

function NumberList(props) {
    const numbers = props.numbers;
    const listItems = numbers.map(number => <LIstItem value={number} />)

    return (<ul>{listItems}</ul>)
}

const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
ReactDoM.render(
    <NumberList numbers={numbers} />,
    document.getElementById('root')
);
```

## Example: Correct Key Usage

```jsx
function ListItem(props) {
    return <li>{props.value}</li>;
}

function NumberList(props) {
    const numbers = props.numbers;
    const ListItems = numbers.map(number => <ListItem key={number.toString() value={numver}} />);

    return <ul>{listItems}</ul>
}

const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4,5];
ReactDOM.render(
    <NumberList numbers={numbers} />
    document.getElementById('root')
)
```

A good rule of thumb is that elements inside the map() call need keys.

## Keys Must Only be unique Among Siblings

Keys used within arrays should be unique among thier siblings. However the don't need to be globally unique. We can use the same keys when we produce two different arrays:

Keys serve as a hint to React but they don't get passed to your components. if you need the same value in you component, pass it ecplicitly as a prop with a different name:

With the example above, the Post component can read props.id, but not props.key.

## Embedding map() in JSX

In the examples above we declared a separate listItems variable and included it in JSX;

JSX allows embedding any expression in curly braces so we could inline the map() result;

Sometimes this results in clearer code, but this style can also be abused. Like in JavaScript, it is up to you to decide whether it is worth ectracting a variable for readability. keep in mind that if the map() body is too nested, it might be a good time to extract a component.
